Improve contribution guidelines (#6666)
digital-asset/daml: CONTRIBUTING.md

The raw changelog is used to compile a meaningful summary of changes across releases. This happens some time after the PR has been merged and the person taking the responsibility of summarizing new user-facing features must be in the position to easily understand the nature of the change and report it. The ideal changelog entry can be more or less incorporated verbatim in the release notes.

Here are a few practical tips:

* if there are no user-facing changes, keep the changelog entry list empty
* the first term to appear should be the affected component -- [here's a list](#list-of-components-for-changelog-entries)
* write as many changelog entries as necessary
* don't be _too_ succinct: a single entry does **not have to** fit on a single line
* on the other end, if the size grows beyond 5-6 lines, rather add a link to a relevant documentation or issue with more details
* the ultimate target are end users: focus on the impact on them, tell them what's new or how to deal with a change

### List of components for changelog entries

>   * Compiler
>   * DAML Maven Plugin
>   * DAML on SQL
>   * DAML Studio
>   * Examples & Docs
>   * Extractor
>   * Java Bindings
>   * Java Codegen
>   * JavaScript Client Libraries
>   * JSON API
>   * Ledger API Specification
>   * Ledger API Test Tool
>   * Navigator
>   * REPL
>   * Sandbox
>   * Scala Bindings
>   * Scala Codegen
>   * Script
>   * SDK Assistant
>   * Standard Library
>   * Test Library
>   * Triggers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * DAML Compiler
  * DAML on SQL
  * DAML Studio
  * Extractor
  * Java Bindings
  * Java Codegen
  * JavaScript Client Libraries
  * JavaScript Codegen
  * JSON API
  * Ledger API Specification
  * Integration Kit (Ledger API Test Tool and changes only relevant for ledger integrations, e.g, kvutils changes, metrics, …)
  * Navigator
  * DAML REPL
  * Sandbox
  * Scala Bindings
  * Scala Codegen
  * DAML Script
  * DAML Assistant
  * DAML Standard Library
  * DAML Triggers
```

Reviewer 2: Looks pretty comprehensive. I wouldn't treat this as an exhaustive list but rather as guidance of the kind of thing that goes in there. This should cover 95%+ of all changelog entries. One suggestion:

Maybe "Distribution/Releases" would be something to include for changes like releasing the JSON API to GH Releases.

    ./unreleased.sh master..

## Writing a good changelog entry

> Writing good changelog entries is **important**: as a developer, it gives visibility on your contribution; as a user, it makes clear what is new, what changes and two deal with those, making the product more accessible and your work more meaningful.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Writing good changelog entries is **important**: as a developer, it gives visibility on your contribution; as a user, it makes clear what is new, what's changed, and how to deal with them, making the product more accessible and your work more meaningful.
```

> Writing good changelog entries is **important**: as a developer, it gives visibility on your contribution; as a user, it makes clear what is new, what changes and two deal with those, making the product more accessible and your work more meaningful.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Writing good changelog entries is **important**: as a developer, it gives visibility on your contribution; as a user, it makes clear what is new, what changes and how to deal with it, making the product more accessible and your work more meaningful.
```

> The raw changelog is used to compile a meaningful summary of changes across releases. This happens some time after the PR has been merged and the person taking the responsability of summarizing new user-facing features must be in the position of easily understand the nature of the change and report it. The ideal changelog entry can be more or less incorporated verbatim in the release notes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The raw changelog is used to compile a meaningful summary of changes across releases. This happens some time after the PR has been merged and the person taking the responsibility of summarizing new user-facing features must be in the position to easily understand the nature of the change and report it. The ideal changelog entry can be more or less incorporated verbatim in the release notes.
```

> The raw changelog is used to compile a meaningful summary of changes across releases. This happens some time after the PR has been merged and the person taking the responsability of summarizing new user-facing features must be in the position of easily understand the nature of the change and report it. The ideal changelog entry can be more or less incorporated verbatim in the release notes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The raw changelog is used to compile a meaningful summary of changes across releases. This happens some time after the PR has been merged and the person taking the responsibility of summarizing new user-facing features must be able to easily understand the nature of the change and report it. The ideal changelog entry can be more or less incorporated verbatim in the release notes.
```

> Here are a few practical tips

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here are a few practical tips:
```

* the first term to appear should be the affected component -- [here's a list](#list-of-components-for-changelog-entries)

> * write as many as necessary changelog entries as necessary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* write as many changelog entries as necessary
```

> * write as many as necessary changelog entries as necessary

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* write as many changelog entries as necessary
```

* don't be _too_ succinct: a single entry does **not have to** fit on a single line
* on the other end, if the size grows beyond 5-6 lines, rather add a link to a relevant documentation or issue with more details

> * the ultimate target are end users: focus on the impact on them, tell them what's new or how to deal with a change

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* the ultimate target are end users: focus on the impact on them, tell them what's new or how to deal with a change. This also means that purely internal changes should not have a release note entry since they are not relevant to users.
```

Reviewer 3: @cocreature: These are not sentences; adding periods makes it unbalanced.

```suggestion
* the ultimate target are end users: focus on the impact on them, tell them what's new or how to deal with a change
* avoid writing entries for purely internal changes, since they are not relevant to users
```

Author: I'd rather keep points short, I'll make this a separate one. It's a re-iteration of what stated above, but re-iteration makes sense here. :slightly_smiling_face:

Author: Addressed by https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/pull/6666/commits/2184613e2d05957ee352ed806c94a0a5899b5de8

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* it's OK for a PR to have no changelog entry if there is no impact on end users (though you still need to be explicit about it, by specifying an empty CHANGELOG_{BEGIN,END} block)

```

Author: Addressed by https://github.com/digital-asset/daml/pull/6666/commits/2184613e2d05957ee352ed806c94a0a5899b5de8

> ### List of components for changelog entries

Reviewer: Maybe add a note that this is not necessarily an exhaustive list. It’s totally fine to use something else or spell it slightly differently (e.g. DAML Assistant or SDK Assistant or somtehing like that)  it just needs to be obvious which component it belongs to but there is no need to check with this list.

Reviewer 4: Totally agree the list is not exhaustive, but if your change does happen to fit in one of the listed component, I don't see a reason to spell it differently.

Author: I would like this to be one. If it's not, someone should raise this so that we can keep this list up-to-date for as much as possible.

Reviewer: See my comment and suggestion below.

> ### List of components for changelog entries

Reviewer 3: I notice that the Ledger API Server and kvutils don'tt seem to fall into any of these. I've been using "Ledger Integration Kit" for the latter for a while. Should they be in the list, do they go somewhere else that I'm not seeing, or should they not be included at all?

Reviewer: We bundle up all the changes that are only relevant for integrations but not for DAML users under “integration kit” atm.

Reviewer 4: The list should be understood more as a suggestion than a strict rule: try to fit in one of these if possible, but if it doesn't fit, you should feel free to make one up. Better yet: add to the list.

Author: @bame-da Your take?

Author: @bame-da More precise question: do you think we should add items here? If yes, what should those be?

Reviewer: Fair enough, I’ve made a suggestion with the components that we use so far (including bundling stuff that we currently bundle and removing stuff that is not an SDK component (maven plugin, test library)) and changed the spellings that we used so far.

# Thank you!

Thank you for taking the time to contribute!

> 

Reviewer 3: Seems unnecessary.

Reviewer 4: Yeah, thanking people is always a waste of time.

...

Oh, you meant the extra blank line? 🤔
